So, this is not a mock test course.
There will be some question samples
in the form of quizzes, but for the
most part, I'll be demonstrating
code samples that might emulate a
question on the exam and strategies
for reading the code, and what types
of things the certification exam might
be trying to test in that question.
I'll be using code samples in an
iterative way, tweaking the code in
various ways to point out how subtle
a single change and its effect can be.
Actually writing and executing the
code yourself for each variation
should help you to grasp and memorize
the nuances and recognize them
in similar questions on the exam.
I've also used slides
extensively in this course.
All of these slides you see in the
videos are available to download.
Watch the last video in this course
to find out how to download them.
These slides are invaluable
for exam preparation so grab
them while you remember.
So, I'm assuming you know the
basics of Java, and therefore,
we'll try to point out interesting
language constructs, as well as
errors common and not common.
Even if you've been coding in Java
for 15 or 20 years, there are features
you may not use regularly, or features
you may have known once but forgotten
the details of, because you just
never use that feature in real life.
Also, there are questions on the
exam which if you use a decent IDE,
you may have simply forgotten or
would never code that way because
the IDE does some optimization for
you, but it is perfectly legitimate
and the exam may have a question
on non-standard coding items.
I'll also be pointing at features
introduced since the java 8 SDK, which
if you're super busy, you may not have
had a chance to explore thoroughly.
Right, so let's head over now to the
official oracle page for the 1Z0-819
exam to check the topics you need
to know in order to pass the exam.
There are links in the
resources section of this video.
All right, so let's scroll down
there and under review exam topics,
you can see a list of topics there.
It’s quite an extensive list and
these are all topics you need to
know in order to pass the exam.
So note that all these topics are
covered in their entirety, in this and
my other 10Z-819 course here on Udemy.
Right, so I'm going to try
and make this course fun, as
well as productive and useful.
If you're like me, you may roll your
eyes at some of the exam questions
since the compiler and any of one of
the latest IDEs really makes so much
of this work trivial - why do we have
to try and memorize it for an exam?
Well, unfortunately, that's how
Oracle roll, so we do need to
know how to do things without
the help of an IDE sometimes if
you want to get Java certified.
Still, with that said, there
are some interesting golden
nuggets hidden in the exam
questions which may surprise you.
So, I hope that I can point them out
and give even the most experienced
developer and “oh interesting,
I did not know that” moment.
In some ways, the exam questions are
like logic puzzles, and who doesn't
among us love a good logic puzzle?
So even when I review the basics,
try not to put on the ‘I know
everything already’ blinders.
I think you know what I mean.
All right, so let's go through now
a few other things you need to know
to get the most out of this course.
See you in the next video.